.github/CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Web Server

## PHP Web Server

For a simple local development environment, you will need:

* [A supported version of PHP](http://php.net/supported-versions.php)
* `php5-json`
* `php5-curl`

Then inside the project directory, run `php -S localhost:8000 router.php`. Next, just navigate to [localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000/) to view the site.

## Nginx Web Server

For a full web-server environment, which includes more redirect and permissions you may find useful, you will need:

* [A supported version of PHP](http://php.net/supported-versions.php)
* `php5-json`
* `php5-curl`
* The latest stable version of [Nginx](http://nginx.org)

Then, we need to configure Nginx. To start, open up a configuration file in Nano.

```bash
sudo nano /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/mvp.conf
```

Then, paste in required configuration in, modifying the root, include and error_log paths.

```
server {
    listen 80;
    server_name mvp.localtest.me;
    root /path/to/mvp;
    include /path/to/mvp/nginx.conf;
    error_log /path/to/error.log;
}
```

You can test the configuration with Nginx.

```bash
sudo nginx -t
```

Now we just need to restart the service.

```bash
sudo service nginx restart
```

Finally, navigate to [mvp.localtest.me](http://mvp.localtest.me)

# Code Style

 - Four space indentation
 - Remove trailing whitespaces and add an empty line at the end of each file
 - IE 9+ Compatibility

## PHP
 - `include` templates, not `require` or `_once`
 - Use full PHP tags, not short ones
 - Don't close PHP tags on PHP only files
 - Correctly format assignments for readability

```php
<?php
    include '_templates/sitewide.php';
    $page['title'] = 'HTML Safe Title';
    include '_templates/header.php';

    $foo        = bar($para, $param);
    $second_foo = 42;
    $third_foo  = 'hey';
?>
```

## HTML
 - Include `alt` attribute for all images
 - Include `title` attribute for all links
 - Close all your tags properly

## CSS
 - Try to use classes instead of IDs unless things are absolutely unique
 - One selector per line
 - Care with fallbacks and browsers compatibilities
```css
.class {
    color: #fefe89;
    font-size: 1.1em;
}

.second-class,
.third-class {
    backgound-color: white;
}
```

# Contributing

## Make a new branch and push it to GitHub.
```bash
git checkout -b feature_branch_name
git push -u origin feature_branch_name
```
## Updating from Master
```bash
git pull origin master
```
## Merge from master
```bash
git checkout feature_branch_name
git merge master
```
## Fix Merge Conflicts
TODO

Commit message:

updated stripe lib, and added composer update info to CONTRIBUTING

.github/CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Web Server

## PHP Web Server

For a simple local development environment, you will need:

* [A supported version of PHP](http://php.net/supported-versions.php)
* `php5-json`
* `php5-curl`

Then inside the project directory, run `php -S localhost:8000 router.php`. Next, just navigate to [localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000/) to view the site.

## Nginx Web Server

For a full web-server environment, which includes more redirect and permissions you may find useful, you will need:

* [A supported version of PHP](http://php.net/supported-versions.php)
* `php5-json`
* `php5-curl`
* The latest stable version of [Nginx](http://nginx.org)

Then, we need to configure Nginx. To start, open up a configuration file in Nano.

```bash
sudo nano /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/mvp.conf
```

Then, paste in required configuration in, modifying the root, include and error_log paths.

```
server {
    listen 80;
    server_name mvp.localtest.me;
    root /path/to/mvp;
    include /path/to/mvp/nginx.conf;
    error_log /path/to/error.log;
}
```

You can test the configuration with Nginx.

```bash
sudo nginx -t
```

Now we just need to restart the service.

```bash
sudo service nginx restart
```

Finally, navigate to [mvp.localtest.me](http://mvp.localtest.me)

# Code Style

 - Four space indentation
 - Remove trailing whitespaces and add an empty line at the end of each file
 - IE 9+ Compatibility

## PHP
 - `include` templates, not `require` or `_once`
 - Use full PHP tags, not short ones
 - Don't close PHP tags on PHP only files
 - Correctly format assignments for readability

```php
<?php
    include '_templates/sitewide.php';
    $page['title'] = 'HTML Safe Title';
    include '_templates/header.php';

    $foo        = bar($para, $param);
    $second_foo = 42;
    $third_foo  = 'hey';
?>
```

## HTML
 - Include `alt` attribute for all images
 - Include `title` attribute for all links
 - Close all your tags properly

## CSS
 - Try to use classes instead of IDs unless things are absolutely unique
 - One selector per line
 - Care with fallbacks and browsers compatibilities
```css
.class {
    color: #fefe89;
    font-size: 1.1em;
}

.second-class,
.third-class {
    backgound-color: white;
}
```

# Composer

We use composer to manage our backend scripts. Because all of these files are
in the repository, it's not required to have `composer` installed unless you want
to update the dependencies.

## Updating

Navigate to `backend/` and run `composer update`.
Make sure to test for any breakage when updating.

# Contributing

## Make a new branch and push it to GitHub.
```bash
git checkout -b feature_branch_name
git push -u origin feature_branch_name
```
## Updating from Master
```bash
git pull origin master
```
## Merge from master
```bash
git checkout feature_branch_name
git merge master
```
## Fix Merge Conflicts
TODO
