TRANSLATE.md, before:

# Translators

You can translate the website online on Transifex: https://www.transifex.com/projects/p/elementary-mvp/. Please don't update directly files in `lang/` on Github as they'll be overriden when pulling new translations from Transifex.

You can propose new languages if they're not listed.

Please read the [branding guidelines](http://elementaryos.org/journal/the-importance-of-our-brand) before translating and pay attention to spelling mistakes.

## Reviewing

It's not a good practice to review strings translated by ourselves. Instead, find someone else speaking your language and ask him to join the reviewers team (you can send a message to [emersion](https://www.transifex.com/accounts/profile/emersion/) to ask this).

## Updating

Languages are manually updated, so you won't see your work published just after you submitted it (see [Pull translated files from Transifex](#pull-translated-files-from-transifex)).

# Web developers

## Extracting translations from HTML files

Translations strings are extracted from HTML files. A little PHP script analyzes HTML files and exports strings to a JSON file: `/backend/extract-l10n.php?page=<page>`. You can change the `page` parameter to extract translations from another page (and set it to `layout` to translate the website layout). Translations are auto-updated on Transifex using this script.

You can add the `include_disabled=1` parameter to print disabled strings too. This behaviour is disabled by default because Transifex doesn't accept `false` values. See _Disabling a translation_ for more information.

## Changing a translation key

If you want to change a translation key for an element, just add a `data-l10n-id` attribute:

```html
<p data-l10n-id="mylongparagraph">Blablabla</p>
```

## Disabling a translation

To ignore a translation string, set it to `false` in `/lang/en/<page>.json`:

```js
{
    "elementary OS": false // Can't be translated
}
```

Alternatively, you can add the `data-l10n-off` attribute to a tag:
```html
<p data-l10n-off="1">I'm ignored.</p>
```

## Pull translated files from Transifex

You will need first to install the Transifex client: http://docs.transifex.com/developer/client/setup

Then, run the following command: 

```bash
tx pull
```

To pull a new language:

```bash
tx pull -l <lang>
```

To pull **all** translations, even new ones:

```bash
tx pull -a
```

## Pushing new translation source files to Transifex

When creating or updating a source file, translations needs to be updated. You can run these commands to extract translations from source files and publish them on Transifex:

```bash
.tx/prepush.sh # Update translation source files
tx push -s # Push new translation source files to Transifex
```

## Adding a new language to the list on the website

The list of available languages is hard-coded in [`_templates/l10n.php`](https://github.com/elementary/mvp/blob/master/_templates/l10n.php#L2). If a new language is complete, you can add it by appendding it to the list. Languages are sorted by index (see [ISO 639-1](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes)) and are localized.

Commit message:

Adds instruction to push only one resource

TRANSLATE.md, after:

# Translators

You can translate the website online on Transifex: https://www.transifex.com/projects/p/elementary-mvp/. Please don't update directly files in `lang/` on Github as they'll be overriden when pulling new translations from Transifex.

You can propose new languages if they're not listed.

Please read the [branding guidelines](http://elementaryos.org/journal/the-importance-of-our-brand) before translating and pay attention to spelling mistakes.

## Reviewing

It's not a good practice to review strings translated by ourselves. Instead, find someone else speaking your language and ask him to join the reviewers team (you can send a message to [emersion](https://www.transifex.com/accounts/profile/emersion/) to ask this).

## Updating

Languages are manually updated, so you won't see your work published just after you submitted it (see [Pull translated files from Transifex](#pull-translated-files-from-transifex)).

# Web developers

## Extracting translations from HTML files

Translations strings are extracted from HTML files. A little PHP script analyzes HTML files and exports strings to a JSON file: `/backend/extract-l10n.php?page=<page>`. You can change the `page` parameter to extract translations from another page (and set it to `layout` to translate the website layout). Translations are auto-updated on Transifex using this script.

You can add the `include_disabled=1` parameter to print disabled strings too. This behaviour is disabled by default because Transifex doesn't accept `false` values. See _Disabling a translation_ for more information.

## Changing a translation key

If you want to change a translation key for an element, just add a `data-l10n-id` attribute:

```html
<p data-l10n-id="mylongparagraph">Blablabla</p>
```

## Disabling a translation

To ignore a translation string, set it to `false` in `/lang/en/<page>.json`:

```js
{
    "elementary OS": false // Can't be translated
}
```

Alternatively, you can add the `data-l10n-off` attribute to a tag:
```html
<p data-l10n-off="1">I'm ignored.</p>
```

## Pull translated files from Transifex

You will need first to install the Transifex client: http://docs.transifex.com/developer/client/setup

Then, run the following command: 

```bash
tx pull
```

To pull a new language:

```bash
tx pull -l <lang>
```

To pull **all** translations, even new ones:

```bash
tx pull -a
```

## Pushing new translation source files to Transifex

When creating or updating a source file, translations needs to be updated. You can run these commands to extract translations from source files and publish them on Transifex:

```bash
.tx/prepush.sh # Update translation source files
tx push -s # Push new translation source files to Transifex
```

If you know that you modified only one source file, it's better to push only this one:
```bash
tx push -s -r <page-name>
```

## Adding a new language to the list on the website

The list of available languages is hard-coded in [`_templates/l10n.php`](https://github.com/elementary/mvp/blob/master/_templates/l10n.php#L2). If a new language is complete, you can add it by appendding it to the list. Languages are sorted by index (see [ISO 639-1](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes)) and are localized.
