docs/installation.md, before:

# Installation {#installation}

## Download elementary OS {#download-elementary-os}

If you haven't already, you will need to <a href="/" target="_blank">download elementary OS from our home page</a>. You will need to copy the downloaded ISO file to a USB flash drive using the instructions below.

## Recommended System Specifications {#recommended-system-specifications}

* Intel i3 or comparable dual-core 64-bit processor
* 1 GB of system memory (RAM)
* 15 GB of disk space
* Internet access

<div class="row alert warning" markdown="1">
<div class="column alert">
<div class="icon">
<i class="warning fa fa-warning"></i>
</div>
<div class="icon-text" markdown="1">

##### Back Up Your Data {#back-up-your-data}

Make sure to back your important data up to an external location such as a cloud service or an external hard drive. Installing a new operating system may overwrite your existing data.

</div>
</div>
</div>

## Choose your current Operating System {#choose-operating-system}

Select the operating system you are currently using to view tailored installation instructions.

<div class="operating-system-choices-container text-center">
<div id="operating-system-choices" class="column linked">
<a class="button install-on-windows" href="#install-on-windows"><i class="fa fa-windows"></i> Windows</a>
<a class="button install-on-macos" href="#install-on-macos"><i class="fa fa-apple"></i> macOS</a>
<a class="button install-on-ubuntu" href="#install-on-ubuntu"><i class="fa fa-linux"></i> Ubuntu</a>
</div>
</div>

***

<div class="slide-container" id="installation-instructions-slide-container" markdown="1">

<div id="install-on-windows" class="slide" markdown="1">

## Verify your Download {#verify-your-download}

Verifying your download is an important, but optional step. We generate a checksum (or hash sum) for elementary OS images and we recommend that you verify that your download matches that checksum before trying to install. This ensures that you've received the full, complete download and that your install image is not corrupted in any way.

Windows doesn't include a built-in tool to verify SHA256 Checksums, so you're going to need to download <a href="http://www.digitalvolcano.co.uk/hash.html">Hash Tool</a>.

![Hash Tool](images/docs/installation/hash-tool.png)

1. Open Hash Tool
2. Under "Hash Type" select `SHA-256`
3. Under "Input File" select `Select File(s)` and find the elementary OS ISO file
4. Verify that the text in "Results" matches the following hash:

```bash nohighlight
8035e0a2fbc977d931af22dcefb77ed6fe87815d89188a43e2cb345f13e629cf
```

## Creating an Install Drive {#creating-an-installation-medium .clear-float}

![Rufus - select ISO](images/docs/installation/rufus_select_iso.png) {.float-left}

You'll need a USB flash drive with at least 2 GB of free space and a program called Rufus.

<a href="https://rufus.akeo.ie/" class="button suggested-action">Download Rufus</a>

1. Open Rufus
2. Insert your USB drive and select it in the "Device" list
3. Select "ISO Image" next to "Create a bootable disk using..."
4. Click ![the disk icon](images/docs/installation/rufus_disk_icon.png) {.inline} to choose the ISO that you downloaded previously.
5. Click "Start" and wait for the process to finish.

## Booting from the Install Drive {#booting-from-the-installation-medium .clear-float}

In order to start the installation process, you must boot your computer from the install drive.

* Assuming that your computer is still on, start by inserting your install drive and restarting your computer.
* Most computers will briefly allow you to change the boot order for this boot only by pressing a special key — usually <kbd>F12</kbd>, but sometimes <kbd>Esc</kbd> or another function key. Refer to the screen or your computer's documentation to be sure.
* Press <kbd>F12</kbd> (or the appropriate key) and select the install drive&mdash;usually "USB-HDD" or something containing the word "USB", but the wording may vary. If you choose the incorrect drive, your computer will likely continue to boot as normal. Just restart your computer and pick a different drive in that menu.
* Shortly after selecting the appropriate boot drive, you should be presented with the elementary OS splash screen. You may now follow the on-screen instructions which will guide you through the rest of the process.

</div>


<div id="install-on-macos" class="slide" markdown="1">

## Verify your Download {#verify-your-download}

Verifying your download is an important, but optional step. We generate a checksum (or hash sum) for elementary OS images and we recommend that you verify that your download matches that checksum before trying to install. This ensures that you've received the full, complete download and that your install image is not corrupted in any way.


Running the following command in your Terminal:

```bash nohighlight
shasum -a 256 ~/Downloads/elementaryos-0.4-stable-amd64.20160921.iso
```

Should produce the output:

```bash nohighlight
8035e0a2fbc977d931af22dcefb77ed6fe87815d89188a43e2cb345f13e629cf
```

Note: This is assuming that you have downloaded the .iso file to your Downloads folder.
In case you have downloaded it elsewhere, please specify the correct path to the downloaded file, as shown below

```bash nohighlight
shasum -a 256 <Path to the Downloaded Folder>/elementaryos-0.4-stable-amd64.20160921.iso
```

## Creating an Install Drive {#creating-an-installation-medium .clear-float}

To create an elementary OS install drive on macOS you'll need a USB flash drive that is at least 2 GB in capacity and an app called "Etcher".

<a href="http://www.etcher.io/" class="button suggested-action">Download Etcher</a>

1. Insert the spare USB drive, and select the ISO file you've just downloaded.
2. Open "Etcher" and select your downloaded elementary OS image file using the "Select image" button.

    ![Select image in Etcher](images/docs/installation/etcher_osx_select.png)

3. Etcher should automatically detect your USB drive, but check to see if it has selected the correct target.
4. Start the flashing process by clicking the "Flash!" button. It will take a moment to get started.

    ![Flash image in Etcher](images/docs/installation/etcher_osx_flash.png)

5. When complete it will be safe to remove the drive and attempt to boot to install elementary OS.

    ![Flash image in Etcher](images/docs/installation/etcher_osx_complete.png)

The following dialog may appear during the flashing process, it is safe to ignore.

![Not readable warning](images/docs/installation/osx_warning.png)


## Booting from the Install Drive {#booting-from-the-installation-medium .clear-float}

In order to start the installation process, you must boot your computer from the install drive.

* Assuming that your computer is still on, start by inserting your install drive and restarting your computer.
* After you hear the chime, press and hold <kbd>Option</kbd>. Then, select the appropriate boot drive. Note that it may be incorrectly identified as "Windows", but this is normal.
* Shortly after selecting the appropriate boot drive, you should be presented with the elementary OS splash screen. You may now follow the on-screen instructions which will guide you through the rest of the process.

#### Boot Errors

If your Mac doesn't recognize your elementary OS USB Install Drive in the boot menu, you may need to create an elementary OS Install DVD instead. To create one, insert a blank DVD, right click on the ISO file in Finder, and select "Burn elementaryos-0.4-stable-amd64.20160921.iso to Disc". When complete, attempt to boot again from the Install DVD.

</div>


<div id="install-on-ubuntu" class="slide" markdown="1">

## Verify your Download {#verify-your-download}

Verifying your download is an important, but optional step. We generate a checksum (or hash sum) for elementary OS images and we recommend that you verify that your download matches that checksum before trying to install. This ensures that you've received the full, complete download and that your install image is not corrupted in any way.


Running the following command in your terminal:

```bash nohighlight
sha256sum elementaryos-0.4-stable-amd64.20160921.iso
```

should produce the output:

```bash nohighlight
8035e0a2fbc977d931af22dcefb77ed6fe87815d89188a43e2cb345f13e629cf
```

## Creating an Install Drive {#creating-an-installation-medium .clear-float}

You'll need a USB flash drive with at least 2 GB of free space and a program called UNetbootin.

<a href="http://appnr.com/install/unetbootin" class="button suggested-action">Download UNetbootin</a>


1. Open UNetbootin from the Dash. It will open a window like the one below:

    ![UNetbootin](images/docs/installation/unetbootin.png)

2. Select "Diskimage"
2. Click "&#8230;" to select the ISO that you downloaded previously.
3. Unplug all USB memory devices apart from the one you want to use.
4. Click "OK" and wait for the process to finish.

## Booting from the Install Drive {#booting-from-the-installation-medium .clear-float}

In order to start the installation process, you must boot your computer from the install drive.

* Assuming that your computer is still on, start by inserting your install drive and restarting your computer.
* Most computers will briefly allow you to change the boot order for this boot only by pressing a special key — usually <kbd>F12</kbd>, but sometimes <kbd>Esc</kbd> or another function key. Refer to the screen or your computer's documentation to be sure.
* Press <kbd>F12</kbd> (or the appropriate key) and select the install drive&mdash;usually "USB-HDD" or something containing the word "USB", but the wording may vary. If you choose the incorrect drive, your computer will likely continue to boot as normal. Just restart your computer and pick a different drive in that menu.
* Shortly after selecting the appropriate boot drive, you should be presented with the elementary OS splash screen. You may now follow the on-screen instructions which will guide you through the rest of the process.

</div>

</div>

## After Installation {#after-installation .clear-float}

Take this time to read the <a href="/docs/learning-the-basics">getting started</a> guide to learn about your new operating system.

<!--[if lt IE 10]><script type="text/javascript" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/g/classlist"></script><![endif]-->
<script type="text/javascript" src="scripts/docs/installation.js" async></script>

Commit message:

Windows: Use Rufus to check hash (#1361)
> As Rufus is needed anyway to create the installation medium this allows users to use one program less and makes the whole process easier...

I'm not sure yet my text is the best way to streamline the installation instructions, but maybe it can serve as a basis for discussion. 

Issues:
* Less emphasis on verifying being optional, which I believe is a good thing. With verifying being so easy it shouldn't be called optional anymore. (In my opinion instructions for Linux and macOS should follow suit.) 
* #verify-your-download is removed as a distinct section, otherwise there would be quite a lot of redudancy. (And is the section really needed if we use only one program?) 
* There is no screenshot showing the computed hashes. (But is it really needed? Especially because a screenshoted different hash could confuse users.)

docs/installation.md, after:

# Installation {#installation}

## Download elementary OS {#download-elementary-os}

If you haven't already, you will need to <a href="/" target="_blank">download elementary OS from our home page</a>. You will need to copy the downloaded ISO file to a USB flash drive using the instructions below.

## Recommended System Specifications {#recommended-system-specifications}

* Intel i3 or comparable dual-core 64-bit processor
* 1 GB of system memory (RAM)
* 15 GB of disk space
* Internet access

<div class="row alert warning" markdown="1">
<div class="column alert">
<div class="icon">
<i class="warning fa fa-warning"></i>
</div>
<div class="icon-text" markdown="1">

##### Back Up Your Data {#back-up-your-data}

Make sure to back your important data up to an external location such as a cloud service or an external hard drive. Installing a new operating system may overwrite your existing data.

</div>
</div>
</div>

## Choose your current Operating System {#choose-operating-system}

Select the operating system you are currently using to view tailored installation instructions.

<div class="operating-system-choices-container text-center">
<div id="operating-system-choices" class="column linked">
<a class="button install-on-windows" href="#install-on-windows"><i class="fa fa-windows"></i> Windows</a>
<a class="button install-on-macos" href="#install-on-macos"><i class="fa fa-apple"></i> macOS</a>
<a class="button install-on-ubuntu" href="#install-on-ubuntu"><i class="fa fa-linux"></i> Ubuntu</a>
</div>
</div>

***

<div class="slide-container" id="installation-instructions-slide-container" markdown="1">

<div id="install-on-windows" class="slide" markdown="1">

You'll need a USB flash drive with at least 2 GB of free space and a program called Rufus.

<a href="https://rufus.akeo.ie/" class="button suggested-action">Download Rufus</a>

## Creating an Install Drive {#creating-an-installation-medium .clear-float}

![Rufus - select ISO](images/docs/installation/rufus_select_iso.png) {.float-left}

1. Open Rufus
2. Insert your USB drive and select it in the "Device" list
3. Select "ISO Image" next to "Create a bootable disk using..."
4. Click ![the disk icon](images/docs/installation/rufus_disk_icon.png) {.inline} to choose the ISO that you downloaded previously.
5. We generate a checksum (or hash sum) for elementary OS images so you can verify your downloaded file. This ensures that you've received the full, complete download and that your install image is not corrupted in any way. Click the `#` button in the status bar and verify that the text next to "SHA256" matches the following hash:
```bash nohighlight
8035e0a2fbc977d931af22dcefb77ed6fe87815d89188a43e2cb345f13e629cf
```

6. If the hashes match, click "Start" and wait for the process to finish.

## Booting from the Install Drive {#booting-from-the-installation-medium .clear-float}

In order to start the installation process, you must boot your computer from the install drive.

* Assuming that your computer is still on, start by inserting your install drive and restarting your computer.
* Most computers will briefly allow you to change the boot order for this boot only by pressing a special key — usually <kbd>F12</kbd>, but sometimes <kbd>Esc</kbd> or another function key. Refer to the screen or your computer's documentation to be sure.
* Press <kbd>F12</kbd> (or the appropriate key) and select the install drive&mdash;usually "USB-HDD" or something containing the word "USB", but the wording may vary. If you choose the incorrect drive, your computer will likely continue to boot as normal. Just restart your computer and pick a different drive in that menu.
* Shortly after selecting the appropriate boot drive, you should be presented with the elementary OS splash screen. You may now follow the on-screen instructions which will guide you through the rest of the process.

</div>


<div id="install-on-macos" class="slide" markdown="1">

## Verify your Download {#verify-your-download}

Verifying your download is an important, but optional step. We generate a checksum (or hash sum) for elementary OS images and we recommend that you verify that your download matches that checksum before trying to install. This ensures that you've received the full, complete download and that your install image is not corrupted in any way.


Running the following command in your Terminal:

```bash nohighlight
shasum -a 256 ~/Downloads/elementaryos-0.4-stable-amd64.20160921.iso
```

Should produce the output:

```bash nohighlight
8035e0a2fbc977d931af22dcefb77ed6fe87815d89188a43e2cb345f13e629cf
```

Note: This is assuming that you have downloaded the .iso file to your Downloads folder.
In case you have downloaded it elsewhere, please specify the correct path to the downloaded file, as shown below

```bash nohighlight
shasum -a 256 <Path to the Downloaded Folder>/elementaryos-0.4-stable-amd64.20160921.iso
```

## Creating an Install Drive {#creating-an-installation-medium .clear-float}

To create an elementary OS install drive on macOS you'll need a USB flash drive that is at least 2 GB in capacity and an app called "Etcher".

<a href="http://www.etcher.io/" class="button suggested-action">Download Etcher</a>

1. Insert the spare USB drive, and select the ISO file you've just downloaded.
2. Open "Etcher" and select your downloaded elementary OS image file using the "Select image" button.

    ![Select image in Etcher](images/docs/installation/etcher_osx_select.png)

3. Etcher should automatically detect your USB drive, but check to see if it has selected the correct target.
4. Start the flashing process by clicking the "Flash!" button. It will take a moment to get started.

    ![Flash image in Etcher](images/docs/installation/etcher_osx_flash.png)

5. When complete it will be safe to remove the drive and attempt to boot to install elementary OS.

    ![Flash image in Etcher](images/docs/installation/etcher_osx_complete.png)

The following dialog may appear during the flashing process, it is safe to ignore.

![Not readable warning](images/docs/installation/osx_warning.png)


## Booting from the Install Drive {#booting-from-the-installation-medium .clear-float}

In order to start the installation process, you must boot your computer from the install drive.

* Assuming that your computer is still on, start by inserting your install drive and restarting your computer.
* After you hear the chime, press and hold <kbd>Option</kbd>. Then, select the appropriate boot drive. Note that it may be incorrectly identified as "Windows", but this is normal.
* Shortly after selecting the appropriate boot drive, you should be presented with the elementary OS splash screen. You may now follow the on-screen instructions which will guide you through the rest of the process.

#### Boot Errors

If your Mac doesn't recognize your elementary OS USB Install Drive in the boot menu, you may need to create an elementary OS Install DVD instead. To create one, insert a blank DVD, right click on the ISO file in Finder, and select "Burn elementaryos-0.4-stable-amd64.20160921.iso to Disc". When complete, attempt to boot again from the Install DVD.

</div>


<div id="install-on-ubuntu" class="slide" markdown="1">

## Verify your Download {#verify-your-download}

Verifying your download is an important, but optional step. We generate a checksum (or hash sum) for elementary OS images and we recommend that you verify that your download matches that checksum before trying to install. This ensures that you've received the full, complete download and that your install image is not corrupted in any way.


Running the following command in your terminal:

```bash nohighlight
sha256sum elementaryos-0.4-stable-amd64.20160921.iso
```

should produce the output:

```bash nohighlight
8035e0a2fbc977d931af22dcefb77ed6fe87815d89188a43e2cb345f13e629cf
```

## Creating an Install Drive {#creating-an-installation-medium .clear-float}

You'll need a USB flash drive with at least 2 GB of free space and a program called UNetbootin.

<a href="http://appnr.com/install/unetbootin" class="button suggested-action">Download UNetbootin</a>


1. Open UNetbootin from the Dash. It will open a window like the one below:

    ![UNetbootin](images/docs/installation/unetbootin.png)

2. Select "Diskimage"
2. Click "&#8230;" to select the ISO that you downloaded previously.
3. Unplug all USB memory devices apart from the one you want to use.
4. Click "OK" and wait for the process to finish.

## Booting from the Install Drive {#booting-from-the-installation-medium .clear-float}

In order to start the installation process, you must boot your computer from the install drive.

* Assuming that your computer is still on, start by inserting your install drive and restarting your computer.
* Most computers will briefly allow you to change the boot order for this boot only by pressing a special key — usually <kbd>F12</kbd>, but sometimes <kbd>Esc</kbd> or another function key. Refer to the screen or your computer's documentation to be sure.
* Press <kbd>F12</kbd> (or the appropriate key) and select the install drive&mdash;usually "USB-HDD" or something containing the word "USB", but the wording may vary. If you choose the incorrect drive, your computer will likely continue to boot as normal. Just restart your computer and pick a different drive in that menu.
* Shortly after selecting the appropriate boot drive, you should be presented with the elementary OS splash screen. You may now follow the on-screen instructions which will guide you through the rest of the process.

</div>

</div>

## After Installation {#after-installation .clear-float}

Take this time to read the <a href="/docs/learning-the-basics">getting started</a> guide to learn about your new operating system.

<!--[if lt IE 10]><script type="text/javascript" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/g/classlist"></script><![endif]-->
<script type="text/javascript" src="scripts/docs/installation.js" async></script>
